1:: what is System design Process in software ?
 
2:: Monolithic Architecture?

3::Difference between monolithic and microservices architecture in Hindi

4::What is latency in networking in Hindi | How to reduce latency in network | CDN vs Caching

5::What is throughput in Hindi ? ( How to improve throughput ?

6::What is throughput in Hindi ? ( How to improve throughput ? )

7::What is Consistency in System Design in Hindi ( Strong vs Eventual Consistency 

8::What is CAP theorem in Hindi ?

9::What is Lamport Logical Clock ?

10::Difference between horizontal and vertical scaling in Hindi

11::Difference between Redundancy and Replication in Hindi ( Master - Slave Replication )

12::What is load balancer and How it works in Hindi ( Load Balancing Algorithms in Hindi)

13::What is Caching in Hindi (Complete Explanation)

14::Cache Eviction Techniques in Hindi ( LRU, LFU, MRU, LIFO, FIFO & RR )

15::File based storage system in Hindi ( File Based Database Management System in Hindi )

16::Can RDBMS scale horizontally in Hindi ? ( Why is it hard to scale relational database ? )

17::Types of NoSQL Databases in Hindi ( Which one to use and where ? )

18::what is Polyglot Persistence in Hindi ?

19::What is denormalization in RDBMS in Hindi

20::How does indexing work in Databases in Hindi ( How to optimize SQL Queries in Hindi )

21::What is Synchronous communication in Hindi


22::What is synchronous and asynchronous communication in Hindi


23::What is message based communication in Hindi ?

24::What is web server in Hindi

25::What is communication protocol in computer network in Hindi

26::REST API | SOA | Microservices architecture | Tier architecture

27::Difference between Authentication and Authorization in Hindi

28::Basic Authentication in Hindi

29::Token Based Authentication in Hindi

30::OAuth Authentication in Hindi

31::Forward proxy and reverse proxy Explained in Hindi

32::Reverse proxy server in Hindi


33::URL shortener system design


3:: what is architecture?

Ans: internal design details for building the application;